Design document

I’ve talked with around twenty students to understand what they really want and how they make friends in the dining halls. One of their first desires was that the website be as simple and easy to use as possible. They didn’t want to have to go through the extra steps of registering for an account and remembering a password. To make the website seem as accessible as possible to first-time users, I designed the website where anyone could add and edit their names on the list. Although the information may not be saved, encouraging accessibility is a greater priority.

The future users mentioned that they would likely look at this list on their smartphones as they are walking over to the dining hall so that they know in advance where they’ll be sitting. Therefore, I made the website display be mobile-friendly so that most of the information will fit within the smaller phone screen. Users can easily swipe down on the screen to quickly see all the list of users. In case someone typed a lot, I limited the character count of the input fields and made the overflowing text appear more vertically than horizontally.

I made the time leaving a required field so that it will automatically delete for people once they exit the dining hall (and not have a bunch of expired names cluttering the form). I made the default time pre-populate to one hour ahead of the current time because I assumed that most people only stay for around one hour for a meal. Users are free to change this time, but they cannot input a time that is before the current time, which is impossible and prevented using a JavaScript alert.

Instead of people having to search for and upload their photos, the website asks users to explain which table they are at and their description (like color of sweater or face feature) which should be enough to help identify them. Users can input their conversation interests to help break the ice and start conversations. Users can edit their information (and the form pre-populates with the previous values for their convenience).
